[Music]
[Applause]
ten unbelievable facts about the
Megalodon the Megalodon seems to be the
stuff nightmares are made of
or dreams if you love impressive
creatures that could use you as a
toothpick its full name is car careless
Megalodon but some shark enthusiasts
just call it the Meg whatever name it
goes by this giant was the biggest
baddie of the ocean when it terrorized
the waters two million years ago if
you're afraid of modern sharks get ready
for these facts because this prehistoric
predator puts them all to shame before
we bite into this list don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel we've got tons
of fascinating videos coming out daily
on the bright side of life so be sure to
wring that notification bell if you
don't want to miss a thing
number 10 the Megalodon was the biggest
shark ever we'll start with the obvious
here this shark species was the largest
this planet has ever seen different
estimates put its size anywhere from 45
up to 60 feet in length to put that into
perspective
60 feet would make the Megalodon about
four times the size of the average great
white shark the Meg weighed up to 100
tons again for comparison the t-rex
weight of mere nine tons
the biggest shark living today is the
whale shark which can grow up to 40 feet
long so there's really no other shark
that can compare to the megalodons
massive size number nine we don't have
many fossils of it today there's
currently a very limited amount of
Megalodon fossils shark skeletons are
made of cartilage which doesn't
fossilize very well so that means almost
all that remains of the mighty Meg are
its teeth which have been found on every
continent except for Asia and Antarctica
given that its fossilized teeth are
everywhere scientists have gathered that
the Megalodon traveled throughout the
world
using these fossils as a guide
scientists have tried to put a picture
together of
this giant predator actually looked like
and how it lived many of the fossils
have been found on shark-tooth Hill near
Bakersfield California this is a popular
site where people can dig for teeth
while wearing protective gloves although
some shark teeth have been buried for
ages they can still be sharp enough to
cut through the skin this is speaking of
teeth number 8 the Megalodon had
enormous teeth the name itself says it
all
Megalodon means big tooth most of its
teeth were about 4 to 5 inches long but
the largest tooth ever found was 7.48
inches and it was discovered in Peru
with a rare size like that these fossils
can be very valuable a 7 inch high
quality Megalodon tooth can be sold for
up to $50,000 but if you have a small
tooth in your collection don't expect to
get a large amount of cash for small
Megalodon teeth tend to be valued quite
low number 7 the Megalodon had a killer
smile those teeth weren't just super
massive in order to feast regularly on
large prey the Meg had an impressive set
of 276 feet
that's sat in five rows in its mouth
most fossilized teeth that have been
recovered show a significant amount of
wear on the tips and some have had the
tips completely broken off from biting
on the bones of its prey
all those teeth arranged in five rows
served as a backup system so that the
Megalodon would never run out as soon as
it lost a tooth another one would
replace it within 48 hours that way this
massive predator could feed his
insatiable appetite and munch on prey
non-stop number six it's not related to
the great white shark another well-known
and equally feared shark although now it
seems like a puny little runt is the
great white which can be found in the
coastal areas of all major oceans
popular belief has it that the great
white shark is a descendant of the Meg
but that claim has been disproved
when the first fossilized teeth of the
Megalodon were discovered they placed
the mighty shark in the same genus as
the great white but fossil discoveries
that have been made since show that the
Megalodon actually comes from a single
evolutionary line that can be traced 60
million years back to the odor discharge
number five the Megalodon had a powerful
bite in order to chew on the bones of
its prey the mag needed to have a very
powerful bite to figure out how strong
its bite was a research group led by
biologist dr. Stephen row conducted
simulations and reported that the
Megalodon could bite down on his prey
with twenty four thousand to forty
thousand pounds of pressure
as for the Tyrannosaurus Rex it had just
twelve thousand eight hundred pounds of
bite force while the great white shark
has only four thousand pounds with
powerful jaws like that the Megalodon
could crush a small car in a second
though would probably break all of its
teeth in the process but no worries
they'd all grow back in a few days
number four its favorite dish was whales
giant beasts have giant appetites and
the Meg was no exception it had the roam
the seven seas in order to meet its
daily requirement of twenty five hundred
pounds of food so that means it needed
some really big prey to accomplish that
goal while it feasted on just about
anything that dared cross its path like
fish seals and sea turtles whales were
its favorite dish scientists know that
the Megalodon loved to eat whales
because fossilized whale bones have been
found with bite marks that match the
Megalodon teeth experts theorize that
the Meg would dive deep into the ocean
stalk its prey from below and RAM the
whale at full speed fracturing its bones
shocking the poor thing and thus
disabling it number three their
nurseries have been discovered when the
Megalodon was ready to give birth
would travel the shallow waters where
large predators couldn't follow
scientists have found several of these
nurseries in the bone Valley region of
Florida the Calvert Cliffs in Maryland
and the gat in formation in Panama to
name a few and experts know these spots
are nurseries because they found one and
a half inch long baby Megalodon teeth
there but before your oh how cute meter
starts to go off you should know that
baby megalodons for about six-and-a-half
feet long at birth even at that size
they still needed to be protected from
other big sharks and whales
so like modern sharks Megalodon young
probably stayed in the nursery until
they were big enough to stand their own
ground against larger predators number
two it had competition the Megalodon
wasn't the only giant to terrorize the
oceans Livi Otten Maveli was a sperm
whale that was over 60 feet long weighed
more than 50 tons and its 14-inch teeth
were the biggest of the animal kingdom
the Megalodon and the Livi otten both
lived in the Miocene epoch they needed
massive amounts of food and since both
of them had a particular taste for
baleen whales they'd fight over prey and
territory just imagine that epic battle
number one it was top of the food chain
the Megalodon was the top predator of
the ocean until it wasn't
the giant shark went extinct 2.6 million
years ago and there are several theories
as to why this happened one of them
suggests climate changes to blame the
Megalodon would swim in warm waters but
climate change would have decreased the
temperature of the oceans over the years
until the Meg could no longer survive in
the cold waters another theory claims
that it was increased competition from
large predators that left this a massive
shark without any food a 2017 study
published in the Journal of paleo
geography paleoclimatology and paleo
ecology claims that the Megalodon met
its end when its prey went extinct this
study the
is that with a disappearance of prey the
predator that feasts on it would go
extinct as well since small baleen
whales went extinct it's likely that the
Megalodon soon followed now let's take a
moment to be thankful that humans
weren't around during the Meigs reign
but would you prefer that the Megalodon
was still alive do you know any other
interesting facts about this mega shark
tell us in the comments below and don't
forget to subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]